Add readme (#12)
hubmapconsortium/cross_modality_query: README.md

# cross_modality_query

Server-side code for HuBMAP Cells API.
[Python](https://github.com/hubmapconsortium/hubmap-api-py-client) and 
[Javascript](https://github.com/hubmapconsortium/hubmap-api-js-client) clients available.

## Usage

This is only a high-level outline of the API:
See the [Python client examples](https://github.com/hubmapconsortium/hubmap-api-py-client/tree/main/examples) for details.

The API supports a small number of basic operations which can be combined to construct more complex queries.
The API runs at a **`base_url`**: Currently `https://cells.dev.hubmapconsortium.org/api` is available.

> Issuing a `POST` to `{base_url}/{output_type}/` (where `output_type` is `cell`, `organ`, `gene`, or `cluster`),

Reviewer: "output_type" is not particularly informative. Are those the entities that will be retrieved by the query?

Reviewer 2: Yes, the output_type is the type of entity in the set that is constructed in response to the query.

> with query parameters in the body, will return a **query set handle**.

Reviewer: Is there any harm in calling these "query"/"query handle" rather than "query set"/"query set" handle? Is the use of "query set" a direct mapping from the Django ORM?

Reviewer 2: I personally don't have a strong feeling about this.  The use of query set was actually more of a name collision with the Django ORM object.

Author: I will update to "query"/"query handle".

(The Python and Javascript interfaces provide a **query set** abstraction, so you don't need to deal directly with the handle.)

Issuing a `POST` to `{base_url}/{operation}/` (where `operation` is `union`, `intersection`, or `difference`),

> with query set handles provided as `key_one` and `key_two` in the body, will return a new query set handle,

Reviewer: It seems that using `handle_` instead of `key_` would be more informative (but I understand that it might be too late for that).

Reviewer 2: Chuck suggested this a little while ago, and I'm not opposed.  I just haven't gotten to it yet.

representing the result of the operation.

Three endpoints are provided for getting more information, given a query set handle:

> - `{base_url}/count/` will return the number of matching records.

Reviewer: "Records" = entities to be retrieved = `output_type` above?

Author: changing "records" to "entities"

> - `{base_url}/evaluation/` will quickly return a limited set of fields from the records.

Reviewer: ... "evaluates the query associated with the handle and returns a predefined set of fields for the entities selected by the query"?

Is "predefined" correct? I would drop "quickly" as it doesn't provide much meaning without context.

Author: dropped "quickly"

> - `{base_url}/evaluation/` will return a limited set of fields from the entities.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `{base_url}/evaluation/` will return a limited set of fields from the entities selected by the query.
```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `{base_url}/evaluation/` will return a pre-defined set of fields from the entities selected by the query.
```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `{base_url}/evaluation/` will return a pre-defined set of fields from the entities selected by the query in random order.
```

> - `{base_url}/detailevaluation/` can sort the results, and may return more fields, but may be a slower operation.

Reviewer: @SFD5311 @mccalluc I am not very fond of the uncertainty in this statement. What does "may return more fields" mean?

Reviewer 2: @ngehlenborg The detail evaluation, in addition to the fields returned by the basic list evaluation, returns additional values requested by the user, i.e. expression of a specified gene for a particular cell.  If no additional values are requested, the response has the same fields as the basic list evaluation.

Reviewer: Ok. A better description of that endpoint would be "will return a both pre-defined and user-defined fields from the entities selected by the query in a user-defined or random order."

Not sure if "random" order is correct.

Any comments about retrieval performance (quickly, slower, etc.) should maybe follow in a separate paragraph below.

Author: I've push a fix which moves performance details to separate paragraph. I've described the ordering as "arbitrary" rather than "random".

To page through the results, `offset` and `limit` can be provided to `evaluation` and `detailevaluation`.

## Coverage

> At this point, only some of the possible combinations of constraint type and output type have been implemented.

Reviewer: Will it be possible to retrieve entities by filtering on properties of the entities themselves, such as their id or other properties (cell area, cluster name, etc.)?

Reviewer 2: Queries by the entities id are in the works.  Queries by other properties of the entities themselves hasn't really been on my radar to this point.

This matrix will be expanded over time, but queries that are better satisfied by other APIs will not be duplicated by this API.

> | ouput / constraint | `cell`    | `cluster` | `dataset` | `gene`    | `organ`   | `protein` |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| output / constraint | `cell`    | `cluster` | `dataset` | `gene`    | `organ`   | `protein` |
```
